[IMP] marketing automation: updated first_campaign (#5093)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/marketing/marketing_automation/getting_started/first_campaign.rst

==============================
Marketing automation campaigns
==============================

The Odoo *Marketing Automation* app automates a variety of marketing tasks by combining specific
rules and filters to generate timed actions. Instead of manually having to build each stage of a
campaign (like a series of timed massmails), the *Marketing Automation* app allows marketers to
build the entire campaign, and all of its stages, in one place -- on one dashboard.

Campaign configuration
======================

To create a new automated marketing campaign, navigate to :menuselection:`Marketing Automation app
--> New` to reveal a blank campaign detail form.

.. image:: first_campaign/blank-marketing-campaign-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A blank marketing automation campaign form in Odoo Marketing Automation application.

After entering a name for the marketing campaign, configure the target audience in the remaining

> fields.

Reviewer: I know that you detail how to do this in the paragraphs below, but I think it would be helpful if there were 1-2 sentences explaining exactly what it means/what it does when you choose an audience for the campaign. Why is it significant?

In the :guilabel:`Target` field, use the drop-down menu to choose which model the target audience
filters should be based on (e.g. :guilabel:`Contact`, :guilabel:`Lead/Opportunity`,
:guilabel:`Sales Order`, etc.).

Select :guilabel:`Search More...` from the drop-down menu to reveal a :guilabel:`Search: Target`
pop-up window containing all 157 target options.

Once a :guilabel:`Target` is selected, there's a :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field. This field is
used to avoid duplicates based on the model chosen in the :guilabel:`Target` field.

.. example::
   If :guilabel:`Customers` is chosen as the :guilabel:`Target`, select :guilabel:`Email` in the
   :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field so Odoo doesn't process any records that have the same Email
   address.

Select :guilabel:`Search More...` from the :guilabel:`Unicity based on` drop-down menu to reveal all
129 options in a pop-up window.

Lastly on the campaign detail form is the :guilabel:`Filter` field. This is where a more specific
audience filter can be configured to add specificity to the recipients of the marketing automation

> campaign.

Reviewer: What are a few examples of the kinds of extra-specific configurations we can add here?

Author: Well, this is a bit tricky. Since there are literally hundreds of random configurations, I don't want to list a few, and the reader wrongfully assumes they can't specify something they want to. So, for the sake of avoiding confusion, I'm going to leave this open-ended, but I fully understand the suggestion. Thanks for pointing this out.

If left alone, the :guilabel:`Filter` field reads: :guilabel:`Match **all records**`. That means
Odoo uses the :guilabel:`Target` and :guilabel:`Unicity based on` fields to determine who the
recipients will be. The number of recipients is represented beneath as :guilabel:`record(s)`.

Campaign filter rules
---------------------

To add a more specific filter to a marketing automation campaign, click the :guilabel:`Add
condition` button in the :guilabel:`Filter` field. Doing so reveals a series of other configurable
filter rule fields.

> In the rule fields, a custom equation(s) can be configured for Odoo to use when filtering who

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the rule fields, custom equations can be configured for Odoo to use when filtering who
```
Since this implies one or many

to whom this marketing automation campaign should be sent. Creating specific target audiences can
help businesses deliver tailored messages and campaigns that appeal to a niche demographic, thus
providing more value and personalization to all subsequent communications.

In the :guilabel:`Target` field, use the drop-down menu to choose which model the target audience
filters should be based on (e.g. :guilabel:`Contact`, :guilabel:`Lead/Opportunity`,
:guilabel:`Sales Order`, etc.).

Select :guilabel:`Search More...` from the drop-down menu to reveal a :guilabel:`Search: Target`
pop-up window containing all 157 target options.

Once a :guilabel:`Target` is selected, there's a :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field. This field is
used to avoid duplicates based on the model chosen in the :guilabel:`Target` field.

.. example::
   If :guilabel:`Customers` is chosen as the :guilabel:`Target`, select :guilabel:`Email` in the
   :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field so Odoo only processes one record for each customer email
   address.

Select :guilabel:`Search More...` from the :guilabel:`Unicity based on` drop-down menu to reveal all
129 options in a pop-up window.

> Lastly on the campaign form is the :guilabel:`Filter` field. This is where a more specific audience
> filter can be configured to add specificity to the recipients of the marketing automation campaign.

Reviewer 2: Grammar and specificity
```suggestion
Last on the campaign form is the :guilabel:`Filter` field. This is where more specific targeting options can be layered into the campaign to further narrow the number and type of recipients that receive the marketing automation material.
```

If left alone, the :guilabel:`Filter` field reads: :guilabel:`Match all records`. That means Odoo
uses the :guilabel:`Target` and :guilabel:`Unicity based on` fields to determine who the recipients
will be. The number of recipients is represented beneath as :guilabel:`record(s)`.

Campaign filter rules
---------------------

To add a more specific filter to a marketing automation campaign, click the :guilabel:`Add
condition` button in the :guilabel:`Filter` field. Doing so reveals a series of other configurable
filter rule fields.

> In the rule fields, custom equations can be configured for Odoo to use when filtering who to include

Reviewer 2: Most of the equations are preset formulas, that are *customizable*
```suggestion
In the rule fields, customizable equations can be configured for Odoo to use when filtering who to include
```

or exclude in this specific marketing campaign.

.. image:: first_campaign/filter-node-equation-fields.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the filter rule equation fields look in Odoo Marketing Automation campaigns.

.. note::
   :guilabel:`Records` refer to contacts in the system that fit the specified criteria for a
   campaign.

Also, once :guilabel:`Add condition` is clicked, the ability to :guilabel:`Save as
Favorite Filter` becomes available on the campaign form.

> .. image:: first_campaign/save-favorite-filter-option.png

Reviewer 2: Not useful unless we include some more surrounding UI to provide a navigational queue as to its location. Would change or remove.

==============================
Marketing automation campaigns
==============================

The Odoo *Marketing Automation* app automates a variety of marketing tasks by combining specific
rules and filters to generate timed actions. Instead of manually having to build each stage of a
campaign (like a series of timed massmails), the *Marketing Automation* app allows marketers to
build the entire campaign, and all of its stages, in one place -- on one dashboard.

Campaign configuration
======================

To create a new automated marketing campaign, navigate to :menuselection:`Marketing Automation app

> --> New` to reveal a blank campaign detail form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
--> New` to reveal a blank campaign form.
```

After entering a name for the marketing campaign, configure the target audience in the remaining
fields.

A target audience can be configured by entering specific criteria for Odoo to use when determining
to whom this marketing automation campaign should be sent. Creating specific target audiences can
help businesses deliver tailored messages and campaigns that appeal to a niche demographic, thus
providing more value and personalization to all subsequent communications.

In the :guilabel:`Target` field, use the drop-down menu to choose which model the target audience
filters should be based on (e.g. :guilabel:`Contact`, :guilabel:`Lead/Opportunity`,
:guilabel:`Sales Order`, etc.).

Select :guilabel:`Search More...` from the drop-down menu to reveal a :guilabel:`Search: Target`
pop-up window containing all 157 target options.

Once a :guilabel:`Target` is selected, there's a :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field. This field is
used to avoid duplicates based on the model chosen in the :guilabel:`Target` field.

.. example::
   If :guilabel:`Customers` is chosen as the :guilabel:`Target`, select :guilabel:`Email` in the

>    :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field so Odoo doesn't process any records that have the same Email

Reviewer 3: Is this what the sentence meant to convey? To me it wouldn't make sense for Odoo not to process *any* records with a shared email address
```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field so Odoo only processes one record for each customer email
```

   address.

Select :guilabel:`Search More...` from the :guilabel:`Unicity based on` drop-down menu to reveal all
129 options in a pop-up window.

> Lastly on the campaign detail form is the :guilabel:`Filter` field. This is where a more specific

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lastly on the campaign form is the :guilabel:`Filter` field. This is where a more specific
```

audience filter can be configured to add specificity to the recipients of the marketing automation
campaign.

> If left alone, the :guilabel:`Filter` field reads: :guilabel:`Match **all records**`. That means

Reviewer 3: Apparently asterisks don't work inside of a guilabel, they just show up as asterisks :)
```suggestion
If left alone, the :guilabel:`Filter` field reads: :guilabel:`Match all records`. That means
```

Odoo uses the :guilabel:`Target` and :guilabel:`Unicity based on` fields to determine who the
recipients will be. The number of recipients is represented beneath as :guilabel:`record(s)`.

Campaign filter rules
---------------------

To add a more specific filter to a marketing automation campaign, click the :guilabel:`Add
condition` button in the :guilabel:`Filter` field. Doing so reveals a series of other configurable
filter rule fields.

In the rule fields, custom equations can be configured for Odoo to use when filtering who to include
or exclude in this specific marketing campaign.

.. image:: first_campaign/filter-node-equation-fields.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the filter rule equation fields look in Odoo Marketing Automation campaigns.

.. note::

>    :guilabel:`Records` represent the number of contacts in the system that fit the specified

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Records` refer to contacts in the system that fit the specified
```

   criteria for a campaign.

Also, once :guilabel:`Add condition` is clicked, the ability to :guilabel:`Save as
Favorite Filter` becomes available on the campaign form.

.. image:: first_campaign/save-favorite-filter-option.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the Save as Favorite Filter option looks on marketing automation campaign form.

There is also the option to match records with :guilabel:`all` or :guilabel:`any` of the rules
configured in the :guilabel:`Filter` field. To choose either of those options, click :guilabel:`all`

> from the middle of the sentence: :guilabel:`Match records with **all** of the following rules:` to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
from the middle of the sentence ":guilabel:`Match records with all of the following rules`" to
```

reveal a drop-down menu with those options.

.. image:: first_campaign/match-all-any-rules-drop-down.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Match records with all or any of the rules in Filter field for marketing campaigns.

When the first field of the rule equation is clicked, a nested drop-down menu of options appears on
the screen where specific criteria is chosen based on needs of the campaign. The remaining fields on

> the rule equation further define the criteria, which is used to determine which records on the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the rule equation further define the criteria, which is used to determine which records in the
```

database to include or exclude in the execution of the campaign.

To add another rule, either click the :guilabel:`➕ (plus sign)` icon to the right of the filtering

> rule. Or click :guilabel:`New Rule` beneath the rule equation fields. When either are clicked, a new

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
rule, or click :guilabel:`New Rule` beneath the rule equation fields. When either are clicked, a new
```
